So yes which one show IP interface brief we can see the IP address of switch one on VLAN 10 is tendered
one attended one shows stand by.
Shows me that the switch is the active router for VLAN 10.
So what I'll do now a ping from Rod a 1 to Router true but make that continuous with a thousand pings
so quantity interface VLAN 10 if I press enter to shut that down I'll start the continuous ping on router
1 and now shut the interface on switch.
1 as you can see here the state went from active to in it and we losing pings on right 1.
We now however getting successful pings through two shows stand by on switch one notice
that is the switch has a state of init because the interface is down so active Rod is a known stand
by Rod is unknown on VLAN 20 it is still the standby Radha however on switch to show standby.
Shows me that this switch is now the active router the standby Rod is unknown.
So once again at the moment broader one can still ping right up to and brought it to can still ping
not a one we've just shut down VLAN 10 on switch 1 which means the rudder one cannot ping switch one
on VLAN 10 and we can prove that by doing a ping to tendered one tendered one the IP address of switch
one on VLAN 10 notice the pings are failing and that's because the interface is shut down on switch
one
but rather one acting as P.S. One is still able to communicate to the virtual Radha
because switch to is now replying as the virtual Radha and is forwarding traffic on behalf of the virtual
Radha on switch to as an example if we do debug IP ICMP and write a 1 pings that a virtual IP address
notice we see the output on switch to switch to is acting as the virtual rudder and rudder one believes
it's still talking to this H.S. IP device so now let's do the reverse process we'll do a ping again
from right one to write it 2 through the network and let's see what happens when we bring up the V Line
interface on switch one so do the ping again no shut on switch one shows stand by
to show Stand by.
I notice it went from listen to active while I was doing that.
So the local router is the active Roorda the standby Rada is unknown at the moment
standby radar is switched to and pings are now succeeding so we were able to prove that rather one acting
as P.S. One competing rudder to acting as P.S. to through this four network even when we bring down
one of the interfaces.
Now you may be thinking that it takes too long for the pings to continue but that's based on these timers
which we can change the default.
Hello Thomas.
Three seconds the default hole timer is 10 seconds at the moment we didn't change the config of HAARP
timers.
We just left them at the default.
But I could type stand by one timers and I can actually specify millisecond timers but for now I'll
just specify a hollow timer of one second and a whole time of three seconds.
So copy that config and go on to switch to the villain 10 and change the timers.
So do show run interface VLAN 10 that's the config of HAARP on switch to a villain 10 and to show run
interface VLAN 10 on switch one that's the config on switch one.
So let's do that test again interface VLAN 10 before I press enter.
Let's do a ping again.
Pings of succeeding shut down the interface notice we only lost two pings in this example because I
reduced the time this switch one went from active to in it
switch to notice on VLAN 10 group 1 went from standby to active.
So we've managed to improve the performance with a loss of only two pings in this topology.
Now once again you can reduce the packets lost even more by using millisecond time as rather than second
timers.
But for this topology and for the CCMA those timers are good enough so I'll do the ping again and then
no shut the interface.
Let's see how many pings we least Shia so interfaces come up we've gone from listen to active
to show standby local Radha is the active Radha standby Radha is switched to and we didn't lose any
pings at all.
So that's a much better response than what we had previously.
That's an example of HS or P in a switched environment.
Showing you what happens when an interface or switch goes down I shut down an interface rather than
rebooting the switch just to make it happen quicker and allow us to see changes more easily.
But you would see something similar if you rebooted an entire switch or rather when using HS or P.